identify problems with existing design
suggest your own design
grading - feasability , cost , how well are you able to justify/defend your design


APL quota acts a dumping ground for the excess food stocks. In  the  absence  of  any  other mechanism  to  reconcile  procurement and  distribution, and to avoid further swelling of food stocks that had already gone  through  the  roof,  the APL quota was the default outlet. With APL allocations varying from year to year in a largely   arbitrary   manner,   the   corresponding  “entitlements”  of  APL households  (actually  no  entitlements  in  any meaningful  sense)  also  varied without rhyme or reason. Very often APL households had no idea of what t hey were supposed to get from the PDS. Corrupt dealers dutifully kept them in the dark and exploited their ignorance. In some states, the  bulk  of  the APL quota  went straight  to  the  black  market  and APL households, unaware of their foodgrain entitlements,  ended  up  treating  their ration card as a “kerosene card”. All this went  on  for  years  because  a  powerful mafia had grown around the APL quota and most of the victims were unaware of the situation.


Samarth:
1. PDS “leakages” refer to the proportion of PDS rice and wheat released by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) that fails to reach consumers.
2. APL quota is a major source of leakage
Reason - APL quota acts a dumping ground for the excess food stocks. In the absence of any other mechanism to distribute the procured grain, and to avoid further swelling of food stocks that had already gone through the roof, the APL quota was the default outlet. With APL allocations varying from year to year in a largely arbitrary manner, entitlements of APL households also varied without any reason. Very often APL households had no idea of what they are supposed to get from the PDS. Corrupt dealers intentionally kept them in the dark and exploited their ignorance. In some states, the bulk of the APL quota went straight to the black market. All this went on for years because a powerful mafia had grown around the APL quota and most of the victims were unaware of the situation.
3. PDS reforms in Odisha that reaped results - doorstep delivery, computerisation, and deprivatisation of fair price shops
4. Bihar - earlier about 80-90 % leakage - introduction of tracking coupons.
5. Problems - overcharging, under-weighing, skipping ration in a particular month
6. Bihar's experience tells that PDS can be improved even in the worst-governed states
7. SECC( a survey ) data tells the about the BPL families in a state. State govts require SECC data to identify eligible families. Many states have not received this data even 4 year after the survey was conducted. This delay in scandaleous